State example (#41)
jtpio/jupyterlab-extension-examples: state/README.md

# Using State Persistence in an Extension

> This example shows how to save and restore data save in persistent state database

Reviewer: Small typo:

```suggestion
This example shows how to save and restore data saved in persistent state database
```

          items: choices,
          current: Math.max(0, choices.indexOf(choice))
        });
      })
      .then(result => {
        // If the user click on the accept button of the dialog
        if (result.button.accept) {
          // Get the user choice
          choice = result.value;
          // Save the choice in the state database
          return state.save(PLUGIN_ID, { choice });
        }
      })
      .catch(reason => {
        console.error(
          `Something went wrong when reading the state for ${PLUGIN_ID}.\n${reason}`
        );
      });
  }
};
```

The `IStateDB` is passed to the `activate` function as an
argument (variable `state`) in addition to the JupyterLab application
(variable `app`). You request that dependency with the property
`requires: [IStateDB],`. It lists the additional arguments
you want to inject into the `activate` function in the `JupyterFontEndPlugin`.

First, the extension waits for the application to be restored before
loading the state data for your plugin:

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
```ts
// src/index.ts#L25-L27

app.restored
  // Get the state object
  .then(() => state.fetch(PLUGIN_ID))
```
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

> The data are loaded as a `ReadonlyJSONValue` object. So all stored data must be

Reviewer: I know it's usually debated, but I think the JupyterLab comments and docs use the singular for data:

```suggestion
The data is loaded as a `ReadonlyJSONValue` object. So all stored data must be
```

JSON-able and its type value should be specifically set when accessing the value.
For instance, in this example the variable `choice` is of type `string`:

```ts
// src/index.ts#L30-L32

if (value) {
  choice = (value as ReadonlyJSONObject)['choice'] as string;
}
```

The `if` test ensure some value has been read. It is important to set a default value.

> Indeed the first time an user will installed your extension, the state won't contain

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Indeed the first time a user will install the extension, the state won't contain
```

> any value for your plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
any value for the plugin.
```

> In the example, once the state is read, the user is prompted to choose a choice from

Reviewer: How about?

```suggestion
In the example, once the state is read, the user is prompted to choose an option from
```

> an item list with the default choice being stored as state variable.

Reviewer: Missing `a`?

```suggestion
an item list with the default choice being stored as a state variable.
```

```ts
// src/index.ts#L35-L39

return InputDialog.getItem({
  title: 'Pick a choice',
  items: choices,
  current: Math.max(0, choices.indexOf(choice))
});
```

This implies to store the new choice done by the user in the state. This is done

> using the `save` methode of `IStateDB`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using the `save` method of `IStateDB`:
```

```ts
// src/index.ts#L47-L47

return state.save(PLUGIN_ID, { choice });
```

> To see it action,

Reviewer: "In" action?

```suggestion
To see it in action,
```
